$Id: README,v 1.3 1998/11/07 19:14:11 kluzz Exp $


                                   JanBot

                                 written by

                              Jan F. Leversund
                               (janf@bits.no)


[1] What the heck is JanBot?

    JanBot is a concurrent file server for iRC.   It hangs out on iRC like
    most other iRC automatons/robots, and acts like an FTP server for it's
    users.  It does however NOT sit on any channels, and does not have any
    vanity features like channel or user protection.   If that is what you
    are looking for,  you'd be better off getting eggdrop, vladbot or some
    of the numerous "battle & rampage" bots available. JanBot is, and will
    never be anything but, a sophisticated file server. But it's extremely
    good at it's job.

    JanBot is written in C by Jan Fredrik Leversund (KluZz@iRC),   and was
    initially  developed on Linux.   It has been reported  to require only
    minor changes to  compile on FreeBSD & NetBSD,  and the author has had
    success in porting it to Solaris 2.X, BSDi, IRIX and HP-UX.  The build
    system uses autoconf, so it should be quite easy to compile.

[2] But isn't this just a simple robot without any channel features?

    Both yes and no. JanBot not a simple robot.  Under the hood is a quite
    powerful multiprocess robot engine, which makes it possible for JanBot
    to serve many users simultaneously, serve them well,  and last but not
    least; serve them fast.  In order to do this, all unecessary features,
    like channel/user protection,  botlink networks,  "battle and rampage" 
    features and so on has been dropped,   and all the work has been about
    improving reaction times, DCC speeds, ease to use, etc. Everything has
    been done to make this the _BEST_ iRC file server available. Here is a
    list of some of the features in this wonder of modern programming:

    * Multiprocess:  JanBot sets up a separate process  for each connected
      user. This process handles all the DCC requests for this user, which
      means that a LOT of DCCs can be handled simultaneously,  the chances
      of disturbing other users are minimized,  and the interface reaction
      time is improved drastically.  "Disturbing other users"  is merely a
      nice way to say that if one user puts heavy load on JanBot,  it will
      not affect the DCC & reaction speeds for the other users, except for
      whatever is due to system limitations.

    * Speed:  JanBot uses the ultra fast HyperDCC  technology to bring the 
      DCC speeds right up there with FTP.  The technology was developed by
      Annatar@iRC (annatar@cow.pasture.com), who has put a lot of time and
      effort into developing the "HyperDCC theory of DCC speed increases".
      The usual DCC implementation  is probably one of the least effective
      transfer protocols around, with it's  "Have you got it? Yes I've got
      it" transfer method.  People have  reported speed increases of up to
      60% after  HyperDCC was implemented,  which is quite an achievement.
      NOTE:  HyperDCC does not require a  special client to receive files,
      it's merely a server side implementation.

    * Ease: JanBot has incorporated a set of commands especially developed
      to make the server easy and quick to use.  Most commands accepts any
      wildcards as parameters, including the SEND/GET and CD commands, and
      the robot will queue all requests that exceeds the user's DCC limit.
      And as if that's not enough,  JanBot will automatically generate tar
      files if a directory  is requested  for sending,  or it will recurse
      through the directory, sending all files it encounters.  All of this
      of course at hyperspeed.

    * Individualism:  Each user has a quite  extensive set of  information
      stored,  including nickname,  allowed hostmasks, encrypted password,
      user level, flags applying to each user,  and so on.  Whenever these
      records are altered, the changes will be stored,  and the robot will
      "remember" all the settings next time the user connects.

    * mIRC Support:  One of the most widely  used iRC clients  nowadays is
      the mIRC client for Windows(tm), written by Khaled Mardam-Bey.
      Although not everybody likes this client  (the author of JanBot does
      indeed hate it),  it does have a useful  feature in the "DCC Resume"
      protocol.   This makes it possible to resume an interrupted transfer
      at the point where it was cut off.  And guess what:  JanBot supports
      it! Yes sir,  you can safely press the "Resume" button whenever mIRC
      asks you to,  and JanBot  will nicely resume the file at the correct
      position. This even works for the automatically generated tar files.
      Right now,  JanBot will NOT request a  DCC Resume if you are sending
      a file to it. This will probably be added shortly.

    * Upload/Download ratios:  A very common feature among the more hitech
      FTP servers is a ratio system.  Basically it  makes sure that anyone
      using the server gives something instead of just leeching. Commonly,
      there's a ratio of 1 : something, meaning that if a user uploads say 
      1mb,  he is allowed to download 5mb in return.  This system has also
      implemented in JanBot, and if required,  it can be compiled into the 
      JanBot binary.

[3] Wow, I like this! Where can JanBot be found?

    The latest version of JanBot can always be found at:

    * ftp://ftp.hib.no/pub/irc/janbot/

    Just go for the file with the highest version number.

[4] Okay, I got the file, now what do I do?

    Now you need to install the bot on your system.  As of version 3.08 it
    uses GNU autoconf  to determine  how to compile the bot,  so it should
    be quite easy to make it work. There's no magic involved in setting up
    the bot,  but some familiarity with the basic workings of an irc robot
    is recommended.

    1. Extract the contents of the distribution archive like this:

         gunzip -c janbot-3.08.tar.gz |tar xfv -

       or if you have GNU tar (which you should):

         tar xfvz janbot-3.08.tar.gz

    2. Enter the janbot-3.08 directory.

    3. Run configure to create a Makefile:

         ./configure

       If you want upload/download ratios enabled, simply do this instead:

         ./configure --enable-ratios

       There are a few other things that can be  enabled as well,  use the
       --help option with configure to get a list of options.

    4. Run the make utility to build the bot executable:

         make

       Everything should build nicely.  If not, happy debugging!  Oh,  you
       might wanna consider sending a mail to the author if something goes
       really wrong,  or if you're trying  to compile  it on some  unknown
       system (unknown to the author, that is).

    5. You should  now have  an executable  file named 'janbot',  which is
       really all you need to run the bot.

    6. Copy the  sample.janbotrc  to  ~/.janbotrc,  or to a file  of  your
       choice.  JanBot will  look for  ~/.janbotrc by default,  unless you
       specify otherwise using the -l command line parameter.

    7. Edit the file you copied to fill your needs.  Pay special attention
       To the Nick and  Server config  lines.  Some of the config tags are
       only operational if  certain parts of the code is compiled into the
       bot binary.

    8. If you do not already have a userlist,  run janbot with the command 
       line parameter -m to create a master user.  Level 3 is the Superior
       Being level.

    9. Start the bot.  If everything goes well, you should be able to make
       contact with your bot on irc.  Try /CTCP <botnick> HELP to get some
       help to get started,  unless,  of course,  your robot is running in
       stealth mode.

    That's just about it. All maintainance is done from iRC, so you should
    not need to edit any of the files anymore,  except maybe the .janbotrc 
    when new servers needs to  be added and so on.   You no longer need to
    restart the robot to activate all changes,   as most parts of the file
    can be rehashed at run time.

[5] It is mine, mine, all mine! Well, actually, it's your's too now.

    JanBot is Copyright (C) 1996, 1997, 1998 by Jan Fredrik Leversund.  As
    of version 3.08,  JanBot is released under the GNU Public License: 
    
        This program  is free software;  you can redistribute it and/or
        modify it under  the terms of the  GNU  General  Public License
        as published the  Free  Software  Foundation;  either version 2
        of the License, or (at your option) any later version.

        This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
        but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY;  without even the implied warranty of
        MERCHANTABILITY  or  FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
        GNU General Public License for more details.

        You should  have received  a copy  of  the  GNU  General Public
        License  along with  this program;  if not,  write to  the Free
        Software Foundation, Inc.,  59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston,
        MA  02111-1307  USA

    The full license is located  in the file called COPYING,  which should
    be in the JanBot distribution tarball.

[6] It's not my fucking fault!

    The author of JanBot  is not to be held  responsible for any damage to 
    software or hardware,  lost income,  broken refridgerators,  divorces, 
    mutated children, dog poo on the floor,  natural disasters, invasions,
    burglaries, flat tires and so on.  You are using this software at your
    own risk, so if shit happens: It's not my fucking fault!

[7] My eternal gratitude to:

    * The people on Drive By Net 3, for months after months of testing and
      suffering. I couldn't have done it without you.
    * Annatar (also DBN3) for developing the HyperDCC  technology which is 
      partially what makes JanBot so unique,  and for helping out on a lot
      of the programming issues.
    * The few people that have mailed me suggestions and bug reports.  You
      know who you are.

Ththththat's all folks!
